ORACLE DATABASE PATCHING
==============================

1. The cluster_install script invokes patchadd to apply the patches to the live boot
environment in the installation order specified in the patch_order file in the Cluster.

2. The patch utilities patch must be applied to the live system in all cases.

3. The Solaris Live Upgrade Software: Minimum Patch Requirements document outlines the
required patches and the process that must be followed to get Solaris Live Upgrade from
the Solaris 08/07 release working on a pre-08/07 Solaris release.

4. So, the problem becomes mainly one of identifying important patches from the user
perspective and applying them in a safe and reliable manner.

5. Patch Check Advanced (PCA):

6. Core Solaris Tools for Patching The recommended method of proactively applying patches is
to use Solaris Live Upgrade.

7. ./patch_order The first -t tells luupgrade that you are installing a patch.

8. If a fix can be identified from such investigation, and that fix involves applying one or
more patches, then at least the change is minimized to just the patch or set of patches
required to fix the problem.

9. If a fix has been identified and a patch has been downloaded (see the Identifying and
Downloading Patches That Are Appropriate for Proactive Patching section for information on
downloading patches), Sun recommends that users use Solaris Live Upgrade to apply patches,
when possible.

10. See the Core Solaris Tools for Patching section for more information.

11. Note : From the perspective of accessing patches, patches that address security issues
remain free.

12. Note : Both the Recommended and Sun Alert clusters contain only core Solaris OS patches.

13. So do patches that provide new hardware drivers.

14. Solaris Live Upgrade consists of a set of tools that enable users to create an alternate
boot environment that is a mirror copy of the current boot partition and then patch the
newly created boot partition prior to making it live.

15. Patching during the installation phase requires that you use JumpStart.

16. There is decrease in downtime because the only downtime that is needed is the time to boot
between the current live partition and the newly patched partition.

17. It is recommended that after the complete list of patches has been identified, the patches
be installed one by one using just patchadd (without the -M option).

18. (In other words, do not drop the -a option.) It is recommended that after the complete
list of patches has been identified, the patches be installed one by one using just
patchadd (without the -M option).

19. If Solaris Live Upgrade is being used, it can also be used to apply the Recommended Patch
Cluster.

20. The images installed by Sun's manufacturers on servers are also based on the EIS patch
baseline.

21. Security patch management

22. Solaris Patch Management: Recommended Strategy

23. With the advent of the Solaris 10 Operating System, patches are used for the following
purposes:

24. This ensures that when the system boots, it has the latest patches installed and,
therefore, avoids any known issues that are outstanding.

25. It is highly likely that the patches identified will all be contained in the most recent
Recommended Patch Cluster.

26. The EIS patch baseline goes through QA testing prior to release.

27. Customers must have a valid support contract to access most other Solaris patches,
including the Solaris patch clusters, such as the Recommended Patch Cluster or the Sun
Alert Patch Cluster.

28. The recommended method of proactively applying patches is to use Solaris Live Upgrade.

29. This section also provides access to all recent Sun Alerts along with Sun Alert patch
reports.

30. Note that the list of patches to apply to get Solaris Live Upgrade working in an
environment with non-global zones is quite large, and they must be applied to the live
running environment.

31. Copy #patchadd -q -a -M .

32. In the rest of this document, it is always assumed that the latest patch utilities patch
has been applied first.

33. If the system being reactively patched has non-global zones installed, you should apply
all patches individually using luupgrade if you are using Solaris Live Upgrade.

34. The smpatch command-line tool is part of the Solaris OS.

35. It is strongly recommended that you do not apply patches using -M without the -a option,
due to several bugs in the current implementation.

36. Identifying patches that are applicable in a reactive patching scenario can often be
complex.

37. The following is a basic example of running patchadd -a -M: Copy #patchadd -a -M <dir
containing patches> The -a argument instructs patchadd to do a dry run, so that no
software gets installed and no changes are made to the system.

38. No patchrm operation is needed.

39. They do not contain patches for Sun Java Enterprise System, Sun Cluster software, Sun
Studio software, or Sun N1, and they do not contain other non-Solaris OS patches that
address security, data corruption, or system availability issues.

40. Again, for customers without a valid support contract, only security and driver patches
are available.

41. Example 1 (applying an individual patch 119254-50): patch 119254-50 nfs://
/export/images/SPARC/10_Recommended

42. FAQ: Patching for the Solaris OS

43. Documents in the Solaris 10 System Administrator Collection, for example, the System
Administration Guide: Basic Administration, with a chapter on managing Solaris patches

44. The EIS set of patches is based on the Recommended Patch Cluster for the Solaris OS with
additional patches included by Sun Field Engineers for additional products and to address
irritating issues that do not meet the criteria for inclusion in the Recommended Patch
Cluster.

45. These and other documents at http://docs.sun.com Solaris Patch Management: Recommended
Strategy Documents in the Solaris 10 System Administrator Collection, for example, the
System Administration Guide: Basic Administration, with a chapter on managing Solaris
patches Sun Update Connection - Enterprise document collection Sun Explorer document
collection Solaris 10 8/07 Installation Guide: Solaris Live Upgrade and Upgrade Planning
Application Packaging Developer's Guide

46. If additional patches are to be applied to a Solaris 10 system using patchadd, patchadd -a
-M can be useful for identifying any missing requirements and identifying a valid
installation order for the patches.

47. In all cases of proactive patching, it is assumed that the system is already functioning
normally.

48. Identifying Patches for Reactive Patching

49. Identifying and Downloading Patches That Are Appropriate for Proactive Patching

50. Tools for Applying Security Patches The same rules apply to applying security patches as
to proactively or reactively applying patches.

51. It can be used to see what patches and updates are available and to easily select the
patches that you want to install.

52. |grep "Approved patches:" |sort -u \ |sed -e "s/Approved patches://g" > patch_order_file
2>&1 #Cat patch_order_file 120900-03 121333-04 119254-50 #for i in 'cat patch_order-file'
do patchadd $i done

53. While this method of applying patches (using just patchadd as opposed to using Solaris
Live Upgrade) has the major disadvantage of requiring you to patch the live system, which
increases both downtime and risk, by using the -a option to inspect the patches before
applying them against the actual system, you can reduce the risk.

54. But any change to pre-existing code is always delivered in a patch.

55. Training: Sun Connection Webinar (requires registration) Sun training courses at
http://www.sun.com/training/, with modules about the fundamentals of package and patch
administration: Make the Transition to the Solaris 10 Operating System (VC-SA-210-S10)
Solaris Operating Environment Essentials for System Maintainers (SM-101) System
Administration for the Solaris 10 Operating System Part 1 (SA-200-S10) Solaris 10 Features
for Experienced Solaris System Administrators (SA-225-S10) Solaris System Administration
for Experienced UNIX Administrators (STS-276) Sun Update Connection - Enterprise Technical
Essentials (WET-1451)

56. When you are in a reactive patching situation, you must try to minimize risk (change) at
all costs.

57. Unfortunately, even though this approach might work if the undiagnosed issue has already
been root caused and a patch issued to fix the issue, if the approach does not work, you
are often worse off than before you applied the patch or patches.

58. Proactive Patch Management Strategy

59. On systems where there are non-global zones, patching can still be done using Solaris Live
Upgrade.

60. Sun training courses at http://www.sun.com/training/, with modules about the fundamentals
of package and patch administration: Make the Transition to the Solaris 10 Operating
System (VC-SA-210-S10) Solaris Operating Environment Essentials for System Maintainers
(SM-101) System Administration for the Solaris 10 Operating System Part 1 (SA-200-S10)
Solaris 10 Features for Experienced Solaris System Administrators (SA-225-S10) Solaris
System Administration for Experienced UNIX Administrators (STS-276) Sun Update Connection
- Enterprise Technical Essentials (WET-1451)

61. smpatch, Update Manager, and Sun Connection - Hosted Edition:

62. These patches could be the latest Recommended Patch Cluster or one or more patches that
appear to be appropriate.

63. Sun also ships new hardware support in patches for much the same reason that Sun ships new
functionality, that is, the need to get support for such hardware to market quickly and
yet maintain a stable release model going forward.

64. In comparison to reactive patching, which is explained in the Reactive Patch Management
Strategy section, proactive patching, in general, implies more change as well as regularly
scheduled maintenance windows.

65. Copy #patchadd -a -M <dir containing patches>

66. These support contracts entitle customers to access all patches, plus a wide range of
additional support services.

67. Sun also has a range of higher-level patch automation tools.

68. With non-global zones, the -a option can help identify the following issues: Zones that
cannot be booted Zones in which a given patch did not meet all the required dependencies
In such cases, the problem must be identified and rectified before patching can commence.

69. Note : Always make sure you apply the latest revision of the patch utilities patch first
before adding any other patches.

70. Proactive patching prevents systems from experiencing known issues.

71. Customers can contact Sun Services to help develop an appropriate patch management
strategy for their specific circumstances.

72. The information in this section describes how to use the core Solaris Live Upgrade and
patch utilities to patch a system.

73. Pay particular attention to the patchadd -a -M output, and in particular make sure that
all non-global zones passed the dependency tests.

74. It provides a reliable and easy-to-use interface, and it can use a local patch server
repository to speed up download.

75. Core Solaris Tools for Patching

76. Patch Automation Tools Here is a list of automated patching tools: Sun Connection 1.1.1
Satellite Edition: Sun Connection 1.1.1 Satellite Edition is based on Aduva Onstage and
Update Connection Enterprise.

77. There are two main reasons why this approach is fundamentally incorrect: The first reason
is that even if the problem appears to go away, you don't know whether the patch or
patches actually fixed the underlying problem.

78. In the case of patchadd, it is also recommended that you first run #patchadd -a to verify
that all zones can be booted and that the specified patch is applicable in all zones.

79. smpatch, Update Manager, and Sun Connection - Hosted Edition: The smpatch command-line
tool is part of the Solaris OS.

80. It allows customers to analyze and update the Solaris OS with current patches.

81. As explained earlier, the -a option does a dry run, so no patches will actually get
installed.

82. The EIS set of patches, which are considered by Sun Field Engineers as best practice to
install on a new system, can also be used to patch existing systems to the same patch
level.

83. Security patch management requires a separate strategy, because it requires you to be
proactive and yet it requires a sense of urgency.

84. The following JumpStart profile examples might be of use: Example 1 (applying an
individual patch 119254-50): patch 119254-50 nfs:// /export/images/SPARC/10_Recommended
Applying the 10_Recommended cluster during JumpStart: patch patch_order nfs://
/export/10_Recommended retry 5 Patches can also be applied using finish scripts, as shown
in example 4-4 in Creating Finish Scripts.

85. The same rules apply to applying security patches as to proactively or reactively applying
patches.

86. Introduction Patch management is a quite complex and involved topic.

87. Proactive patching is recommended mainly for the following reasons: Proactive patching
reduces unplanned downtime.

88. Tools for Applying Patches in a Reactive Patching Scenario If a fix has been identified
and a patch has been downloaded (see the Identifying and Downloading Patches That Are
Appropriate for Proactive Patching section for information on downloading patches), Sun
recommends that users use Solaris Live Upgrade to apply patches, when possible.

89. Note : The -M option to patchadd is available only in the Solaris 10 FCS (03/05) release
and later.

90. The -a argument instructs patchadd to do a dry run, so that no software gets installed and
no changes are made to the system.

91. Once patched, the new boot partition can be booted.

92. If you need to apply the patch or patches immediately (or the issue impacts Solaris Live
Upgrade itself), you should first run patchadd with the -a option (since -a does a dry run
and does not modify the system).

93. In such cases, the problem must be identified and rectified before patching can commence.

94. Patch Management Best Practices Enda O'Connor, April 2008

95. Proactive Patching on Systems With Non-global Zones On systems where there are non-global
zones, patching can still be done using Solaris Live Upgrade.

96. Proactive patching is recommended mainly for the following reasons:

97. Proactive patching provides the ability to plan ahead and do appropriate testing before
deployment.

98. You can register all your servers and you can schedule and review the installation of
patches from a central portal.

99. For More Information Here are additional resources: Training: Sun Connection Webinar
(requires registration) Sun training courses at http://www.sun.com/training/, with modules
about the fundamentals of package and patch administration: Make the Transition to the
Solaris 10 Operating System (VC-SA-210-S10) Solaris Operating Environment Essentials for
System Maintainers (SM-101) System Administration for the Solaris 10 Operating System Part
1 (SA-200-S10) Solaris 10 Features for Experienced Solaris System Administrators
(SA-225-S10) Solaris System Administration for Experienced UNIX Administrators (STS-276)
Sun Update Connection - Enterprise Technical Essentials (WET-1451) These and other
documents at http://docs.sun.com Solaris Patch Management: Recommended Strategy Documents
in the Solaris 10 System Administrator Collection, for example, the System Administration
Guide: Basic Administration, with a chapter on managing Solaris patches Sun Update
Connection - Enterprise document collection Sun Explorer document collection Solaris 10
8/07 Installation Guide: Solaris Live Upgrade and Upgrade Planning Application Packaging
Developer's Guide Related sites and resources: These and other BigAdmin resources: FAQ:
Patching for the Solaris OS Overview of Solaris Patch Types and Dependencies How To Use
Solaris Live Upgrade to Install Patches

100. Identifying and Downloading Patches That Are Appropriate for Proactive Patching The
recommended way of tracking issues relevant to proactive patching is to register to
receive Sun Alerts, which can be done on the SunSolve home page under the Sun Alerts
section.

101. Applying the 10_Recommended cluster during JumpStart: patch patch_order nfs://
/export/10_Recommended retry 5

102. Patches can also be applied using finish scripts, as shown in example 4-4 in Creating
Finish Scripts.

103. Tools for Applying Patches in a Reactive Patching Scenario

104. The second -t is actually being passed to patchadd through the -O option to luupgrade.

105. People most often associate patches with delivering bug fixes only, and while this might
have been true in early Solaris releases, this has progressively ceased to be the case.

106. Patching is not done on the live partition, so the system can continue in production until
it is suitable to boot to the newly patched partition.

107. Here is an example of using patchadd in a loop, where patch_order_file is the ordered list
from patchadd -a -M:

108. New functionality, such as ZFS and NewBoot, is delivered entirely by patches, enabling
businesses to take advantage of the new functionality without having to upgrade to a newer
release of the Solaris OS.

109. Using Solaris Live Upgrade is covered in more detail in the Core Solaris Tools for
Patching section.

110. This article covers the following topics: Patch Content People most often associate
patches with delivering bug fixes only, and while this might have been true in early
Solaris releases, this has progressively ceased to be the case.

111. Why patch a system that is functioning normally, since any change implies risk, which in
itself implies downtime?

112. It covers the provisioning of patches, packages, configuration files, and scripts.

113. The main goal in proactive patch management is to prevent unplanned downtime or, in other
words, problem prevention.

114. Tools for Applying Security Patches

115. Otherwise, use just patchadd.

116. Here is a list of automated patching tools:

117. Proactive Patch Management Strategy The main goal in proactive patch management is to
prevent unplanned downtime or, in other words, problem prevention.

118. If you are running a Solaris 10 release prior to 08/07, you need to add the Solaris 08/07
Solaris Live Upgrade packages to the live system and then apply a list of patches that are
required in order to get Solaris Live Upgrade working in an environment that has non-
global zones deployed.

119. For customers with a valid support contract, all patches are available.

120. The four basic strategies outlined here are as follows: Proactive patch management
Reactive patch management Security patch management Installing a new system We will
discuss the tools most appropriate to each strategy, where to locate the patches or patch
clusters to apply, and any useful information and tips that are appropriate to a given
strategy.

121. This option provides a good way for customers to patch a defined and tested patch
baseline.

122. Depending on the severity of the problem, the patch or patches that fix the issue will be
installed at one of the following times: Immediately to gain relief At the next regular
maintenance window, if the problem is not critical or a workaround exists During an
emergency maintenance window that is brought forward to facilitate applying the fix
earlier Identifying Patches for Reactive Patching Identifying patches that are applicable
in a reactive patching scenario can often be complex.

123. The benefits of using Solaris Live Upgrade are the following: There is decrease in
downtime because the only downtime that is needed is the time to boot between the current
live partition and the newly patched partition.

124. In addition to using the core Solaris Live Upgrade and patch utilities to patch a system,
Sun also has a range of higher-level patch automation tools.

125. For the Solaris 10 OS, the patch utilities patches are as follows: SPARC: 119254-xx X86:
119255-xx Note : From the perspective of accessing patches, patches that address security
issues remain free.

126. Depending on the severity of the problem, the patch or patches that fix the issue will be
installed at one of the following times:

127. These and other BigAdmin resources: FAQ: Patching for the Solaris OS Overview of Solaris
Patch Types and Dependencies How To Use Solaris Live Upgrade to Install Patches

128. The recommended approach is to use Solaris Live Upgrade; otherwise, use patchadd.

129. The most common response to such a situation is usually to apply the latest patch or
patches, which might be perceived as being capable of fixing the issue.

130. Sun Connection 1.1.1 Satellite Edition provides a solution for customers primarily
interested in patch and package provisioning.

131. It instructs patchadd to skip patch dependency verification.

132. Update Manager ( updatemanager ) is a GUI wrapper around smpatch and it is also part of
the Solaris OS.

133. In some cases, the Special Install Instructions are updated after the patch has been
released to SunSolve, in order to clarify issues surrounding the particular patch
installation or to notify users of newly identified issues.

134. |grep "Approved patches:" |sort -u \ |sed -e "s/Approved patches://g" > patch_order_file
2>&1 #Cat patch_order_file 120900-03 121333-04 119254-50 #for i in 'cat patch_order-file'
do patchadd $i done In this patchadd -q -a example, -q instructs patchadd to run in
"quiet" mode and also output headings for the installable patches, which are called
"Approved patches." While this method of applying patches (using just patchadd as opposed
to using Solaris Live Upgrade) has the major disadvantage of requiring you to patch the
live system, which increases both downtime and risk, by using the -a option to inspect the
patches before applying them against the actual system, you can reduce the risk.

135. The first reason is that even if the problem appears to go away, you don't know whether
the patch or patches actually fixed the underlying problem.

136. Reactive patch management

137. Proactive patching reduces unplanned downtime.

138. The idea behind proactive patching is that in most cases, problems that can occur have
already been identified and patches have already been released.

139. See the Patch Automation Tools section for more information.

140. Patch management is a quite complex and involved topic.

141. Here is an example of using patchadd in a loop, where patch_order_file is the ordered list
from patchadd -a -M: Copy #patchadd -q -a -M .

142. Probably the best time to proactively patch a system is while it is being installed.

143. Proactive patch management

144. Basically, reactive patching occurs in response to an issue that is currently affecting
the running system and that needs immediate relief.

145. So, Sun ships some new functionality in standard patches.

146. If Solaris Live Upgrade is not applicable to the system being patched, it is recommended
that the appropriate patches are downloaded and all requirements are identified, and then
the patches can be applied using only patchadd.

147. One caveat is that you must pass the -t option into patchadd using the -O option to
luupgrade, for example: #cd 10_Recommended #luupgrade -t -n be3 -O -t -s .

148. Installing a New System Probably the best time to proactively patch a system is while it
is being installed.

149. Due to current issues with patchadd -M, it is recommended that you do not run patchadd -M
without the -a option, because doing so can lead to unrecoverable errors.

150. Such issues can include the following: Memory corruption that has not yet caused a problem
Data corruption, most of which is silent until such data is read back in Latent security
issues Panics due to code paths that have not been exercised before Security issues are a
good example of the value of proactive patching.

151. Unfortunately, there is no one patch management plan that fits all situations.

152. The following is a basic example of running patchadd -a -M:

153. In proactive patching, you can and should have tested the change you are applying.

154. In the event that issues occur with the EIS patch baseline, recommendations are
communicated to the EIS community.

155. In this patchadd -q -a example, -q instructs patchadd to run in "quiet" mode and also
output headings for the installable patches, which are called "Approved patches."

156. In the case of systems that have non-global zones configured, it is recommended that you
apply patches individually using just patchadd.

157. For More Information Here are additional resources: Training: Sun Connection Webinar
(requires registration) Sun training courses at http://www.sun.com/training/, with modules
about the fundamentals of package and patch administration: Make the Transition to the
Solaris 10 Operating System (VC-SA-210-S10) Solaris Operating Environment Essentials for
System Maintainers (SM-101) System Administration for the Solaris 10 Operating System Part
1 (SA-200-S10) Solaris 10 Features for Experienced Solaris System Administrators
(SA-225-S10) Solaris System Administration for Experienced UNIX Administrators (STS-276)
Sun Update Connection - Enterprise Technical Essentials (WET-1451) These and other
documents at http://docs.sun.com Solaris Patch Management: Recommended Strategy Documents
in the Solaris 10 System Administrator Collection, for example, the System Administration
Guide: Basic Administration, with a chapter on managing Solaris patches Sun Update
Connection - Enterprise document collection Sun Explorer document collection Solaris 10
8/07 Installation Guide: Solaris Live Upgrade and Upgrade Planning Application Packaging
Developer's Guide Related sites and resources: These and other BigAdmin resources: FAQ:
Patching for the Solaris OS Overview of Solaris Patch Types and Dependencies How To Use
Solaris Live Upgrade to Install Patches Resources for Careers Developers Investors
Partners Researchers Students and Educators Why Oracle Analyst Reports Best cloud-based
ERP Cloud Economics Social Impact Security Practices Learn What is a sovereign cloud?

158. If you are already running the Solaris 08/07 OS, then Solaris Live Upgrade can be used to
apply patches without any further issue.

159. For customers without a valid support contract, only security and driver patches are
available.

160. Security issues are a good example of the value of proactive patching.

161. Overview of Solaris Patch Types and Dependencies

162. To facilitate applying multiple patches, you can use patchadd -a -M to produce an ordered
list of patches that can be installed individually using patchadd.

163. With the advent of the Solaris 10 Operating System, patches are used for the following
purposes: Deliver bug fixes.

164. Note : It is strongly advised that you read the Special Install Instructions for all
patches prior to installing them.

165. Sun strongly recommends that proactive patching be the strategy of choice in those
situations where it is applicable.

166. Oracle.com QUICK LINKS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Oracle Fusion Cloud Applications Oracle
AI Database Download Java Careers at Oracle Search Country View Accounts Back Cloud
Account Sign in to Cloud Sign Up for Free Cloud Tier Oracle Account Sign-In Create an
Account Help Sign Out Contact Sales Menu Patch Management Best Practices Enda O'Connor,
April 2008 IT Infrastructure Technical Details Technical Article Introduction Patch
management is a quite complex and involved topic.

167. All of these changes require modifications to existing patch management plans.

168. Proactive Patching on Systems With Non-global Zones

169. The second reason is that applying patches in a reactive patching session introduces an
element of risk.

170. Reactive Patch Management Strategy

171. At no stage when patching a system with non-global zones should you use the -M option to
patchadd, nor should you try to apply a list of patches using an order file and luupgrade.

172. Then inspect the output from patchadd -a prior to actually installing the patch or
patches.

173. The patches might have simply changed the system in such a way as to obscure the issue for
now, and the problem could recur later.

174. How To Use Solaris Live Upgrade to Install Patches

175. Skip to content Accessibility Policy Products Industries Resources Customers Partners
Developers Company Close Search Oracle.com QUICK LINKS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Oracle
Fusion Cloud Applications Oracle AI Database Download Java Careers at Oracle Search
Country View Accounts Back Cloud Account Sign in to Cloud Sign Up for Free Cloud Tier
Oracle Account Sign-In Create an Account Help Sign Out Contact Sales Menu Patch Management
Best Practices Enda O'Connor, April 2008 IT Infrastructure Technical Details Technical
Article Introduction Patch management is a quite complex and involved topic.

176. If Solaris Live Upgrade is not an acceptable option, then Sun recommends that you use the
same method outlined in the Core Solaris Tools for Patching section, that is, identify all
the patches required and use patchadd -a -M to identify any missing requirements.

177. For the Solaris 10 OS, the patch utilities patches are as follows:

178. One caveat is that you must pass the -t option into patchadd using the -O option to
luupgrade, for example:

179. Zones in which a given patch did not meet all the required dependencies

180. The output from the command is verbose but consists of an ordered list of patches that can
be installed, plus it clearly identifies any patches that cannot be installed due to
dependencies that must be satisfied first.

181. Reactive Patch Management Strategy Basically, reactive patching occurs in response to an
issue that is currently affecting the running system and that needs immediate relief.

182. The recommended way of tracking issues relevant to proactive patching is to register to
receive Sun Alerts, which can be done on the SunSolve home page under the Sun Alerts
section.

183. This document goes through some basic scenarios for creating a patch management strategy
for any given organization.

184. Security Patch Management Security patch management requires a separate strategy, because
it requires you to be proactive and yet it requires a sense of urgency.

185. The EIS patch baseline covers the Solaris OS and other products, such as Sun Cluster
software, SunVTS software, System Service Processor (SSP), System Management Services
(SMS), Sun StorageTek QFS software, Sun StorageTek SAM-FS software, and it includes
patches that provide firmware updates.

186. See the section Patch Automation Tools for more information.

187. We will discuss the tools most appropriate to each strategy, where to locate the patches
or patch clusters to apply, and any useful information and tips that are appropriate to a
given strategy.

188. When using Solaris Live Upgrade is not an option, the Recommended Patch Cluster can be
installed using the cluster_install script that comes with the Cluster.

189. Related sites and resources: These and other BigAdmin resources: FAQ: Patching for the
Solaris OS Overview of Solaris Patch Types and Dependencies How To Use Solaris Live
Upgrade to Install Patches

190. Also, there's a greater chance that the changes you applied will have negative
consequences elsewhere on the system, which lead to more reactive patching.

191. If more than one patch is being installed, you can use patchadd -a -M to produce an
ordered list of patches, which should then be installed individually using just patchadd.

192. Some organizations have specific guidelines on change management that must be adhered to
when developing a patch management plan.

193. For the same reason, it is also recommended that you not use luupgrade -t to apply a list
of patches using an order file, because it uses patchadd -M internally.

194. Additional testing by Sun's manufacturers plus feedback from the EIS user community raises
confidence in the EIS patch baseline further.

195. Patch Automation Tools

196. But once this is done, Solaris Live Upgrade can be used to patch going forward, as normal,
with all the benefits that Solaris Live Upgrade provides.

197. Patch Check Advanced (PCA): PCA is a popular third party tool developed by Martin Paul.



ORACLE DATABASE MONITORING
================================

1. Oracle Database. Table 7-1 Database Monitoring Tools Tool Functionality Event Viewer
Monitor database events.

2. Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows Using Event Viewer Learn how to use Event
Viewer.

3. Oracle Sales or Cloud Support using the Chat link in the menu bar. The Oracle Sales team
can help you sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Who is eligible for Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? One Oracle Cloud Free Trial or Always Free account is permitted per person. Please
note: Creating or attempting to create multiple free accounts is prohibited. All contact
and billing information provided must be accurate, valid, and used with consent for the
duration of the account. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the
suspension or termination of your account. Why do I need to provide credit or debit card
information when I sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier? To provide free Oracle Cloud
accounts to our valued customers, we need to ensure that you are who you say you are. We
use your contact information and credit/debit card information for account setup and
identity verification. Oracle may periodically check the validity of your card, resulting
in a temporary “authorization” hold. These holds are removed by your bank, typically
within three to five days, and do not result in actual charges to your account. What
payment methods does Oracle accept? We accept credit cards and debit cards that function
like credit cards. We do not accept debit cards with a PIN or virtual, single-use, or
prepaid cards. What is the advantage of moving to Pay As You Go accounts after the trial?
You have access to customer support to open tickets and troubleshoot account issues. Pay
As You Go accounts are subject to different capacity limits than Always Free accounts. As
you move from development and testing to production scenarios, you may need to use
resources outside of Always Free limits. You will have access to the latest portfolio of
OCI services, such as artificial intelligence, and you only pay for what you use. How do I
know how much I am going be charged for Pay As You Go services? You will only be charged
for services that you use that exceeds Always Free. You can find information about costs
in the Oracle Cloud Price List and the Oracle cloud cost estimator . View all Oracle Cloud
Free Tier FAQ *Free Tier is generally available in regions where commercial Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure service is available See the data regions page for detailed service
availability (Exact regions available for Free Tier may differ during signup process). The
US$300 cloud credit is available in select countries and valid for up to 30 days. Cloud
credits consumption can be subject to discounted rates during the 30-day promotional
period. ** Availability to Free Tier is subject to capacity limits. The capacity limits
listed under each service are only estimates and reflect the maximum capacity you can get
if you consume your entire credit on one service during the promotional period. The
maximum capacity per service you get can be less if you consume multiple services. The
list of services and capacity estimates are subject to change. Your credit balance is
available to you in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console. Resources for Careers
Developers Investors Partners Startups Students and Educators Why Oracle Analyst Reports
Cloud Economics with Microsoft Azure vs. AWS vs. Google Cloud vs. MongoDB Learn What is
AI? What is Cloud Computing? What is Cloud Storage? What is HPC? What is IaaS? What is
PaaS? What’s new Oracle Cloud Free Tier Cloud Architecture Center Cloud Lift Oracle
Support Rewards Oracle Red Bull Racing Contact us Sales: +1.800.633.0738 How can we help?
Subscribe to emails Events News OCI Blog Country/Region © 2026 Oracle Privacy / Do Not
Sell My Info Ad Choices Careers Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Frequently asked
questions Open all Close all What is Oracle Cloud Free Tier? Oracle Cloud Free Tier allows
you to sign up for an Oracle Cloud account which provides a number of Always Free services
and a Free Trial with US$300 of free credit to use on all eligible Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure services for up to 30 days. The Always Free services are available for an
unlimited period of time. The Free Trial services may be used until your US$300 of free
credits are consumed or the 30 days has expired, whichever comes first. What are Always
Free Services? Always Free services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Always Free
services are available for an unlimited time. Some limitations apply. As new Always Free
services become available, you will automatically be able to use those as well. The
following services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based
Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer
Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous
Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX
Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging
Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor
Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery
Is Oracle Cloud Free Tier available in all countries? Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently
available in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service is
available.

4. The following services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based
Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer
Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous
Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX
Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging
Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor
Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery
Is Oracle Cloud Free Tier available in all countries?

5. Includes a complete JRE plus tools for developing, debugging, and monitoring Java
applications.

6. Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud
Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery Is Oracle
Cloud Free Tier available in all countries? Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently available
in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service is available.

7. Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud
Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery Always Free
services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier.

8. Database Monitoring Tools Database Monitoring Tools describes tools that enable you to
monitor Oracle Database.

9. Oracle Database for Windows instance has one alert log; information is appended to the
file each time you start the instance. All threads can write to the alert log . For
example, when automatic archiving of redo logs is halted because no disk space is
available, a message is placed in the alert log. The alert log is the first place to check
if something goes wrong with the database and the cause is not immediately obvious. The
alert log is named alert_ SID .log and is found in the ADR directory specified by the
parameter DIAGNOSTIC_DEST in the initialization parameter file. Alert logs must be deleted
or archived periodically. Related Topics Modifying the Initialization Parameter File See
Also: Oracle Database Installation Guide for Microsoft Windows in the "ADMIN Directory"
section. Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows Alert logs contain important
information about error messages and exceptions that occur during database operations.

10. Database Monitoring Tools Previous Next JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display
this content Administrator's Reference Monitoring a Database on Windows Overview of
Database Monitoring Tools Overview of Database Monitoring Tools Database Monitoring Tools
describes tools that enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

11. Oracle Database for Windows problems and other significant occurrences are recorded as
events in an application event log. View and manage these recorded events in Event Viewer.
Using Event Viewer Learn how to use Event Viewer. Managing Event Viewer Learn how to
manage Event Viewer. Reading Event Viewer Learn how to read an Event Viewer. Parent topic:
Monitoring a Database on Windows Using Event Viewer Learn how to use Event Viewer.

12. Database Monitoring Tools Monitor database events.

13. Oracle Cloud Free Tier | Oracle Accessibility Policy Skip to content About Services
Solutions Pricing Partners Resources Close Search Oracle.com QUICK LINKS Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure Oracle Fusion Cloud Applications Oracle Database Download Java Careers at
Oracle Search Country Menu Contact Sales Sign in to Oracle Cloud Oracle Cloud Free Tier
Build, test, and deploy applications on Oracle Cloud—for free. Start for free Sign in to
Oracle Cloud Here is how Oracle Cloud Free Tier works 1 Start with a US$300 cloud credit.*
You’ll have 30 days to use it to test your applications on all OCI services, in addition
to Always Free Services in your Free Tier account. 2 At any time during or after the
30-day period,* switch to a Pay As You Go account. Pay only for services that exceed the
monthly free amounts from Always Free Services. 3 If you do nothing after 30 days, you’ll
continue to get Always Free Services in your Free Tier account. Oracle Cloud Free Tier Get
cloud credits and start using Oracle Cloud services. Sign up now Services available on
Oracle Cloud Free Tier Featured Product Tier Type Always Free Trial Product Category
Filtered by: No Filters applied Clear all Here are some resources to enhance your Oracle
Cloud Free Tier experience Developer Resource Center Discover, learn, and build. Create
common apps and grow with generative AI. Enjoy unmatched capabilities. Learn more about
Developer Resource Center Oracle Architecture Center Design and implement your workloads
faster and more efficiently with reference architectures, quick-start guides, and other
resources. Learn more about Oracle Architecture Center Free training and accreditation The
Oracle Learning Explorer program offers entry-level training courses and accreditation for
Oracle's entire product portfolio. Learn more about Free training and accreditation
Frequently asked questions Open all Close all What is Oracle Cloud Free Tier? Oracle Cloud
Free Tier allows you to sign up for an Oracle Cloud account which provides a number of
Always Free services and a Free Trial with US$300 of free credit to use on all eligible
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services for up to 30 days. The Always Free services are
available for an unlimited period of time. The Free Trial services may be used until your
US$300 of free credits are consumed or the 30 days has expired, whichever comes first.
What are Always Free Services? Always Free services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier.
Always Free services are available for an unlimited time. Some limitations apply. As new
Always Free services become available, you will automatically be able to use those as
well. The following services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-
based Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer
Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous
Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX
Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging
Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor
Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery
Is Oracle Cloud Free Tier available in all countries? Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently
available in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service is
available.

14. Alert Logs Previous Next JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content
Administrator's Reference Monitoring a Database on Windows About Alert Logs About Alert
Logs Alert logs contain important information about error messages and exceptions that
occur during database operations.

15. Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows

16. Learn how to monitor Oracle Database for Windows.

17. Oracle Database. About Event Viewer Oracle Database for Windows problems and other
significant occurrences are recorded as events in an application event log. About Trace
Files Oracle Database for Windows background threads use trace files to record occurrences
and exceptions of database operations, and errors. About Alert Logs Alert logs contain
important information about error messages and exceptions that occur during database
operations. Viewing Oracle Database Thread Information To view information about Oracle
Database threads using Oracle Administration Assistant for Windows, you must either enable
Windows native authentication for the database or run the utility ocfgutil.exe with
arguments username and password . Learn how to monitor Oracle Database for Windows.

18. HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive
Storage Flexible Load Balancer Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous
Data Warehouse Autonomous Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database
(Phoenix Region only) APEX Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring
Notifications Logging Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault
Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management
Starter Edition Email Delivery

19. Oracle Enterprise Manager documentation set for more information Oracle Administration
Assistant for Windows View information about or terminate any Oracle thread. Table 7-1
Database Monitoring Tools Monitor database events.

20. Database Monitoring Tools Tool Functionality Event Viewer Monitor database events.

21. Oracle Java SE Linux Solaris Windows Product/file description File size Download x64
Compressed Archive 53.13 MB server-jre-8u481-linux-x64.tar.gz Product/file description
File size Download SPARC 64-bit 65.18 MB server-jre-8u481-solaris-sparcv9.tar.gz x64
Compressed Archive 63.12 MB server-jre-8u481-solaris-x64.tar.gz Product/file description
File size Download x64 Compressed Archive 52.70 MB server-jre-8u481-windows-x64.zip Which
Java 8 package do I need? Software developers: Java SE Development Kit (JDK) For Java
developers. Includes a complete JRE plus tools for developing, debugging, and monitoring
Java applications.

22. Oracle Sales or Cloud Support using the Chat link in the menu bar. The Oracle Sales team
can help you sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Who is eligible for Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? One Oracle Cloud Free Trial or Always Free account is permitted per person. Please
note: Creating or attempting to create multiple free accounts is prohibited. All contact
and billing information provided must be accurate, valid, and used with consent for the
duration of the account. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the
suspension or termination of your account. Why do I need to provide credit or debit card
information when I sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier? To provide free Oracle Cloud
accounts to our valued customers, we need to ensure that you are who you say you are. We
use your contact information and credit/debit card information for account setup and
identity verification. Oracle may periodically check the validity of your card, resulting
in a temporary “authorization” hold. These holds are removed by your bank, typically
within three to five days, and do not result in actual charges to your account. What
payment methods does Oracle accept? We accept credit cards and debit cards that function
like credit cards. We do not accept debit cards with a PIN or virtual, single-use, or
prepaid cards. What is the advantage of moving to Pay As You Go accounts after the trial?
You have access to customer support to open tickets and troubleshoot account issues. Pay
As You Go accounts are subject to different capacity limits than Always Free accounts. As
you move from development and testing to production scenarios, you may need to use
resources outside of Always Free limits. You will have access to the latest portfolio of
OCI services, such as artificial intelligence, and you only pay for what you use. How do I
know how much I am going be charged for Pay As You Go services? You will only be charged
for services that you use that exceeds Always Free. You can find information about costs
in the Oracle Cloud Price List and the Oracle cloud cost estimator . What are Always Free
Services? Always Free services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Always Free services
are available for an unlimited time. Some limitations apply. As new Always Free services
become available, you will automatically be able to use those as well. The following
services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based Ampere A1
Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer Flexible
Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous Transaction
Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX Application
Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging Application
Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud
Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery Always Free
services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier.

23. Table 7-1 Database Monitoring Tools

24. Oracle Sales or Cloud Support using the Chat link in the menu bar. The Oracle Sales team
can help you sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Who is eligible for Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? One Oracle Cloud Free Trial or Always Free account is permitted per person. Please
note: Creating or attempting to create multiple free accounts is prohibited. All contact
and billing information provided must be accurate, valid, and used with consent for the
duration of the account. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the
suspension or termination of your account. Why do I need to provide credit or debit card
information when I sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier? To provide free Oracle Cloud
accounts to our valued customers, we need to ensure that you are who you say you are. We
use your contact information and credit/debit card information for account setup and
identity verification. Oracle may periodically check the validity of your card, resulting
in a temporary “authorization” hold. These holds are removed by your bank, typically
within three to five days, and do not result in actual charges to your account. What
payment methods does Oracle accept? We accept credit cards and debit cards that function
like credit cards. We do not accept debit cards with a PIN or virtual, single-use, or
prepaid cards. What is the advantage of moving to Pay As You Go accounts after the trial?
You have access to customer support to open tickets and troubleshoot account issues. Pay
As You Go accounts are subject to different capacity limits than Always Free accounts. As
you move from development and testing to production scenarios, you may need to use
resources outside of Always Free limits. You will have access to the latest portfolio of
OCI services, such as artificial intelligence, and you only pay for what you use. How do I
know how much I am going be charged for Pay As You Go services? You will only be charged
for services that you use that exceeds Always Free. You can find information about costs
in the Oracle Cloud Price List and the Oracle cloud cost estimator . View all Oracle Cloud
Free Tier FAQ Frequently asked questions Open all Close all What is Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? Oracle Cloud Free Tier allows you to sign up for an Oracle Cloud account which
provides a number of Always Free services and a Free Trial with US$300 of free credit to
use on all eligible Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services for up to 30 days. The Always
Free services are available for an unlimited period of time. The Free Trial services may
be used until your US$300 of free credits are consumed or the 30 days has expired,
whichever comes first. What are Always Free Services? Always Free services are part of
Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Always Free services are available for an unlimited time. Some
limitations apply. As new Always Free services become available, you will automatically be
able to use those as well. The following services are available as Always Free: HeatWave
AMD-based Compute Arm-based Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage
Flexible Load Balancer Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data
Warehouse Autonomous Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database
(Phoenix Region only) APEX Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring
Notifications Logging Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault
Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management
Starter Edition Email Delivery Is Oracle Cloud Free Tier available in all countries?
Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently available in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure service is available.

25. Oracle Database for Windows events are displayed with a source of Oracle. SID . Event
number 34 specifies an audit trail event. These events are recorded if the parameter
AUDIT_TRAIL is set to db ( true ) or os in the initialization parameter file. Option os
enables systemwide auditing and causes audited records to be written to Event Viewer.
Option db enables systemwide auditing and causes audited records to be written to the
database audit trail (table SYS.AUD$ ). Some records, however, are written to Event
Viewer. Event numbers other than 34 specify general database activities, such as an
instance being started or stopped. When you double-click an icon in Event Viewer, the
Event Properties dialog box appears with more information about the selected event. Event
Properties General Tab, for example, shows details about Event ID 4112. In the General
tab, you find a text description of the event. In the Details tab, you can select Friendly
View to see the System and Event Data in words or XML View to see the same information in
XML format, as shown in Event Properties Details Tab. Figure 7-2 Event Properties General
Tab Description of "Figure 7-2 Event Properties General Tab" Figure 7-3 Event Properties
Details Tab Description of "Figure 7-3 Event Properties Details Tab" See Also: Microsoft
operating system documentation for more information about using Event Viewer Parent topic:
About Event Viewer Oracle Database for Windows problems and other significant occurrences
are recorded as events in an application event log. View and manage these recorded events
in Event Viewer. Using Event Viewer Learn how to use Event Viewer. Managing Event Viewer
Learn how to manage Event Viewer. Reading Event Viewer Learn how to read an Event Viewer.
Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows Using Event Viewer Learn how to use Event
Viewer.

26. Oracle Database Thread Information Previous Next JavaScript must be enabled to correctly
display this content Administrator's Reference Monitoring a Database on Windows Viewing
Oracle Database Thread Information Viewing Oracle Database Thread Information To view
information about Oracle Database threads using Oracle Administration Assistant for
Windows, you must either enable Windows native authentication for the database or run the
utility ocfgutil.

27. Oracle Database for Windows problems and other significant occurrences are recorded as
events in an application event log. About Trace Files Oracle Database for Windows
background threads use trace files to record occurrences and exceptions of database
operations, and errors. About Alert Logs Alert logs contain important information about
error messages and exceptions that occur during database operations. Viewing Oracle
Database Thread Information To view information about Oracle Database threads using Oracle
Administration Assistant for Windows, you must either enable Windows native authentication
for the database or run the utility ocfgutil.exe with arguments username and password .
Learn how to monitor Oracle Database for Windows.

28. Database Monitoring Tools describes tools that enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

29. Includes tools for JVM monitoring and tools commonly required for server applications, but
does not include browser integration (Java plug-in), auto-update, or an installer.

30. Description of the illustration procinfo.gif Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on
Windows

31. Oracle Enterprise Manager documentation set for more information Oracle Administration
Assistant for Windows View information about or terminate any Oracle thread. Note: A
64-bit version of Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Express is available on 64-bit
Windows. Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Express can manage a 32-bit Windows database
from a remote Linux or Windows 64-bit computer. Database Monitoring Tools describes tools
that enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

32. Monitor and tune using tools with a real-time graphical performance information.

33. Oracle Database for Windows. Overview of Database Monitoring Tools Database Monitoring
Tools describes tools that enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

34. Table 7-1 Database Monitoring Tools Tool Functionality Event Viewer Monitor database
events.

35. Application Performance Monitoring

36. Monitor database events.

37. OracleOraConfig When the Windows native authentication is not enabled, Oracle Remote
Configuration Agent retrieves the user name and password from this registry key to log in
to the database. To view information about Oracle Database threads using Oracle
Administration Assistant for Windows: From the Start menu, select All Programs , then
select Oracle - HOMENAME , then select Configuration and Migration Tools , and then select
Administration Assistant for Windows . Right-click the SID , where SID is a specific
instance name, such as orcl . Select Process Information . The Process Information dialog
box appears, listing name, type, user, thread ID, and CPU usage for each Oracle Database
thread. To terminate a thread, select it, and click Kill Thread . Description of the
illustration procinfo.gif Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows To view
information about Oracle Database threads using Oracle Administration Assistant for
Windows, you must either enable Windows native authentication for the database or run the
utility ocfgutil.

38. Oracle Database for Windows background threads use trace files to record occurrences and
exceptions of database operations, and errors. Background thread trace files are created
and stored in the Automatic Diagnostic Repository (ADR) directory specified by the
parameter DIAGNOSTIC_DEST in the initialization parameter file. Oracle Database creates a
different trace file for each foreground and background thread. The name of the trace file
contains the name of the thread, followed by the extension ". trc" . The following are
examples of foreground trace file names: ops_ora_5804.trc ops_ora_4160.trc The following
are the examples of the background trace file names: ops_pmon_1556.trc ops_mmon_3768.trc
ops_lgwr_2356.trc ops_dbw0_132.trc Trace files are also created for user threads and
stored in the ADR directory specified by the parameter DIAGNOSTIC_DEST in the
initialization parameter file. Trace files for user threads have the form ora xxxxx .trc ,
where xxxxx is a 5-digit number indicating the Windows thread ID . Parent topic:
Monitoring a Database on Windows Oracle Database for Windows background threads use trace
files to record occurrences and exceptions of database operations, and errors.

39. Oracle Sales or Cloud Support using the Chat link in the menu bar. The Oracle Sales team
can help you sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Who is eligible for Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? One Oracle Cloud Free Trial or Always Free account is permitted per person. Please
note: Creating or attempting to create multiple free accounts is prohibited. All contact
and billing information provided must be accurate, valid, and used with consent for the
duration of the account. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the
suspension or termination of your account. Why do I need to provide credit or debit card
information when I sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier? To provide free Oracle Cloud
accounts to our valued customers, we need to ensure that you are who you say you are. We
use your contact information and credit/debit card information for account setup and
identity verification. Oracle may periodically check the validity of your card, resulting
in a temporary “authorization” hold. These holds are removed by your bank, typically
within three to five days, and do not result in actual charges to your account. What
payment methods does Oracle accept? We accept credit cards and debit cards that function
like credit cards. We do not accept debit cards with a PIN or virtual, single-use, or
prepaid cards. What is the advantage of moving to Pay As You Go accounts after the trial?
You have access to customer support to open tickets and troubleshoot account issues. Pay
As You Go accounts are subject to different capacity limits than Always Free accounts. As
you move from development and testing to production scenarios, you may need to use
resources outside of Always Free limits. You will have access to the latest portfolio of
OCI services, such as artificial intelligence, and you only pay for what you use. How do I
know how much I am going be charged for Pay As You Go services? You will only be charged
for services that you use that exceeds Always Free. You can find information about costs
in the Oracle Cloud Price List and the Oracle cloud cost estimator . View all Oracle Cloud
Free Tier FAQ *Free Tier is generally available in regions where commercial Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure service is available See the data regions page for detailed service
availability (Exact regions available for Free Tier may differ during signup process). The
US$300 cloud credit is available in select countries and valid for up to 30 days. Cloud
credits consumption can be subject to discounted rates during the 30-day promotional
period. ** Availability to Free Tier is subject to capacity limits. The capacity limits
listed under each service are only estimates and reflect the maximum capacity you can get
if you consume your entire credit on one service during the promotional period. The
maximum capacity per service you get can be less if you consume multiple services. The
list of services and capacity estimates are subject to change. Your credit balance is
available to you in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console. Resources for Careers
Developers Investors Partners Startups Students and Educators Why Oracle Analyst Reports
Cloud Economics with Microsoft Azure vs. AWS vs. Google Cloud vs. MongoDB Learn What is
AI? What is Cloud Computing? What is Cloud Storage? What is HPC? What is IaaS? What is
PaaS? What’s new Oracle Cloud Free Tier Cloud Architecture Center Cloud Lift Oracle
Support Rewards Oracle Red Bull Racing Contact us Sales: +1.800.633.0738 How can we help?
Subscribe to emails Events News OCI Blog Country/Region © 2026 Oracle Privacy / Do Not
Sell My Info Ad Choices Careers Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Accessibility Policy
Skip to content About Services Solutions Pricing Partners Resources Close Search
Oracle.com QUICK LINKS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Oracle Fusion Cloud Applications Oracle
Database Download Java Careers at Oracle Search Country Menu Contact Sales Sign in to
Oracle Cloud Oracle Cloud Free Tier Build, test, and deploy applications on Oracle
Cloud—for free. Start for free Sign in to Oracle Cloud Here is how Oracle Cloud Free Tier
works 1 Start with a US$300 cloud credit.* You’ll have 30 days to use it to test your
applications on all OCI services, in addition to Always Free Services in your Free Tier
account. 2 At any time during or after the 30-day period,* switch to a Pay As You Go
account. Pay only for services that exceed the monthly free amounts from Always Free
Services. 3 If you do nothing after 30 days, you’ll continue to get Always Free Services
in your Free Tier account. Oracle Cloud Free Tier Get cloud credits and start using Oracle
Cloud services. Sign up now Services available on Oracle Cloud Free Tier Featured Product
Tier Type Always Free Trial Product Category Filtered by: No Filters applied Clear all
Here are some resources to enhance your Oracle Cloud Free Tier experience Developer
Resource Center Discover, learn, and build. Create common apps and grow with generative
AI. Enjoy unmatched capabilities. Learn more about Developer Resource Center Oracle
Architecture Center Design and implement your workloads faster and more efficiently with
reference architectures, quick-start guides, and other resources. Learn more about Oracle
Architecture Center Free training and accreditation The Oracle Learning Explorer program
offers entry-level training courses and accreditation for Oracle's entire product
portfolio. Learn more about Free training and accreditation Frequently asked questions
Open all Close all What is Oracle Cloud Free Tier? Oracle Cloud Free Tier allows you to
sign up for an Oracle Cloud account which provides a number of Always Free services and a
Free Trial with US$300 of free credit to use on all eligible Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
services for up to 30 days. The Always Free services are available for an unlimited period
of time. The Free Trial services may be used until your US$300 of free credits are
consumed or the 30 days has expired, whichever comes first. What are Always Free Services?
Always Free services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Always Free services are
available for an unlimited time. Some limitations apply. As new Always Free services
become available, you will automatically be able to use those as well. The following
services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based Ampere A1
Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer Flexible
Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous Transaction
Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX Application
Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging Application
Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud
Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery Is Oracle
Cloud Free Tier available in all countries? Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently available
in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service is available.

40. Overview of Database Monitoring Tools Database Monitoring Tools describes tools that
enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

41. Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Management Packs Monitor and tune using tools with a
real-time graphical performance information.

42. Oracle Sales or Cloud Support using the Chat link in the menu bar. The Oracle Sales team
can help you sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Who is eligible for Oracle Cloud Free
Tier? One Oracle Cloud Free Trial or Always Free account is permitted per person. Please
note: Creating or attempting to create multiple free accounts is prohibited. All contact
and billing information provided must be accurate, valid, and used with consent for the
duration of the account. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the
suspension or termination of your account. Why do I need to provide credit or debit card
information when I sign up for Oracle Cloud Free Tier? To provide free Oracle Cloud
accounts to our valued customers, we need to ensure that you are who you say you are. We
use your contact information and credit/debit card information for account setup and
identity verification. Oracle may periodically check the validity of your card, resulting
in a temporary “authorization” hold. These holds are removed by your bank, typically
within three to five days, and do not result in actual charges to your account. What
payment methods does Oracle accept? We accept credit cards and debit cards that function
like credit cards. We do not accept debit cards with a PIN or virtual, single-use, or
prepaid cards. What is the advantage of moving to Pay As You Go accounts after the trial?
You have access to customer support to open tickets and troubleshoot account issues. Pay
As You Go accounts are subject to different capacity limits than Always Free accounts. As
you move from development and testing to production scenarios, you may need to use
resources outside of Always Free limits. You will have access to the latest portfolio of
OCI services, such as artificial intelligence, and you only pay for what you use. How do I
know how much I am going be charged for Pay As You Go services? You will only be charged
for services that you use that exceeds Always Free. You can find information about costs
in the Oracle Cloud Price List and the Oracle cloud cost estimator . View all Oracle Cloud
Free Tier FAQ What is Oracle Cloud Free Tier? Oracle Cloud Free Tier allows you to sign up
for an Oracle Cloud account which provides a number of Always Free services and a Free
Trial with US$300 of free credit to use on all eligible Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
services for up to 30 days. The Always Free services are available for an unlimited period
of time. The Free Trial services may be used until your US$300 of free credits are
consumed or the 30 days has expired, whichever comes first. What are Always Free Services?
Always Free services are part of Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Always Free services are
available for an unlimited time. Some limitations apply. As new Always Free services
become available, you will automatically be able to use those as well. The following
services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based Ampere A1
Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer Flexible
Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous Transaction
Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX Application
Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging Application
Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor Virtual Cloud
Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery Is Oracle
Cloud Free Tier available in all countries? Oracle Cloud Free Tier is currently available
in all regions where commercial Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service is available.

43. Oracle Enterprise Manager documentation set for more information Oracle Administration
Assistant for Windows View information about or terminate any Oracle thread. Note: A
64-bit version of Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Express is available on 64-bit
Windows. Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Express can manage a 32-bit Windows database
from a remote Linux or Windows 64-bit computer. See Also: Oracle Database Performance
Tuning Guide Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on Windows Database Monitoring Tools
describes tools that enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

44. Oracle Database for Windows problems and other significant occurrences are recorded as
events in an application event log. About Trace Files Oracle Database for Windows
background threads use trace files to record occurrences and exceptions of database
operations, and errors. About Alert Logs Alert logs contain important information about
error messages and exceptions that occur during database operations. Viewing Oracle
Database Thread Information To view information about Oracle Database threads using Oracle
Administration Assistant for Windows, you must either enable Windows native authentication
for the database or run the utility ocfgutil.exe with arguments username and password .
Overview of Database Monitoring Tools Database Monitoring Tools describes tools that
enable you to monitor Oracle Database.

45. See Also: Oracle Database Performance Tuning Guide Parent topic: Monitoring a Database on
Windows

46. The following services are available as Always Free: HeatWave AMD-based Compute Arm-based
Ampere A1 Compute Block Volume Object Storage Archive Storage Flexible Load Balancer
Flexible Network Load Balancer Site-to-Site VPN Autonomous Data Warehouse Autonomous
Transaction Processing Autonomous JSON Database NoSQL Database (Phoenix Region only) APEX
Application Development Resource Manager (Terraform) Monitoring Notifications Logging
Application Performance Monitoring Service Connector Hub Vault Bastions Security Advisor
Virtual Cloud Networks Site-to-Site VPN Content Management Starter Edition Email Delivery

